
# What is Hacker?

* Hacker are often misunderstood as people bleaching into the computer.
* Yet, this is extremely biased view towards hackers.
* In fact, we cannot have a sufficient infrastructures of internet without the hackers.
* Linux works in X% of the computer. Building website requires you to use modules of achievement done by hackers.
* They are unruly and free. Calling all hackers criminals is like calling all locksmiths burglars.
* In fact, they are rebelious. But for a good reason. 
* Linux has been deemed as a threat for Microsoft. So as other Open Source Software.
	* Halloween Document

* Hacking, is the collaborative creation and improvement of software, often outside of conventional corporate hierarchies, driven by passion, reputation, and community values.
* It can be viewed as a specific practice on developing a software in this manner, but in this paper, we view it as "communication" in Luhmann's term.
* Hacking involves hacker with multiplicity of interests and skills, a project and certain practices that they are involved in, coder and computer software. Software is a entanglement of hardware, middleware, network protocols, programming language and many more.
* Software, especially open-source software, has self-selective structure deciding which communication is deemed as such and which not.
* Hackers would intend to give updates on the code or give feedbacks. But the only communication that survives are those made through double contingency.
* The communication are extremely self-referencial, as we would seen more in the following chapters.

# Why is it important?

* It was threat for a good reason. The hackers collaborate from all over the world, often without financial compensation. Yet, it did overcame what tech giant couldn't do.
* And that is precisely why it drew many attentions of anthropologist, sociologist and organizational study.
* Yet, not many studies has been done.
* Luhmann says its a "tool for discovery"

# Luhmann and New Materialism

* Luhmann and New Materialism are synergetic.
* Jan 
* I also need to tell how Luhmann’s analysis has been lacking this view of material despite the deep compatibility.

# The question and contribution

* The time material “talked back” that the operational closure happened.
* What we lack is material discursiveness.
* Hacker communication is intrinsically material. It operates beyond symbolic mediation, embedded in the tangible realities of code, infrastructure, and execution environments.
- By looking through the lens of Luhmann, we will see that hacker culture emerged as a necessity, and to analyze it through Luhmann’s systems theory—highlighting what aspects are essential for understanding it as an autonomous social system and what aspects are less relevant.
- Through rooting back the origin of the hacker culture, we will see the mix of rhizomatic and arborescent communication, which reinforces the autopoietic nature of the open-source software.