# What is Hacker's Ethic?

* Hacker’s ethic has more than what material-discursive practices requires
* According to Himanen, the hacker’s ethics are divided into 7 principles.
* Richard Stallman made the free software movement. It was a social movement in Luhmannian term.
* This was even evident from Home Brew Computing Club.
* However, this ethic isn’t peculiar to the hackers with computers.
* According to Kelly, Kennedy the hacker culture can date back at least to Medieval period of the renaissance.

# Medieval Hackers

* Rainaissance was the flourishment of creativity.
* Luhmann mentioned this period as:
* It was invention of printing press that spread the Bible and information, while nudged artists toward originality.
* Accordingly to Kelty, they were
* Kennedy called them “Medieval hackers”
* The ethos clearly came from collaborative spirit of creators.
# Workshops and collaboration

* Hacking is a modern art of craft. It is a ongoing engagement between maker and the material. Tim Ingold, explained this as "correspondence" of two different lineage, human image and material. 
* According to Gourhan, human evolution was the externalization of functions (especially technical ones) into tools and symbols. 
* Humans are no longer fully “in the body” but instead exteriorized in the technical system
* Tomasello argues that human are thus grounded on collaboration as an evolved human tendency, not just a modern convenience. 
* He emphasizes role division, joint attention, and norm adherence. Shared intentionality enabled humans to teach and refine tool use across generations (scaffolding craftsmanship). 
* This tendency toward collaboration in crafting is illustrated in Sennet's medieval workshops. 
* Through the workshop we see master's correspondence with shared materials, and share tacit knowledge, build a working norms.
* The same correspondence reappears in software: **design intentions** (specs, issues) meet **material behaviors** (compilers, runtimes, networks); “plans” are resources, and “working/not working” is the workshop’s verdict that stabilizes after a long conversation with a very modern material.

# The code again

* The shared was what was useful.
* The work of masters were proliferated.
* People used what ever that worked *for them.*
* Hackers work on their own problems that worth solving for them.
* People resonating with the intention join the project.
* This is very rhizomatic.
* This is very similar to conviviality that Illich mentioned.
# Rhizomatic vs. Arborescent

* Here we see two distinctive kinds of norms.
* One is those represented with git management. This is about accumulation — the arborescent.
* Another is the "free" norm seen in hacker culture. This is about sharing and having full ownership and control — the rhizomatic.
* These are very different but both coexisting and being reproduced.
* This intertwinement and tention between two distinctive mode is the path of technology.



